TY  - CONF
JO  - Software Engineering (ICSE), 2013 35th International Conference on
TI  - Measuring the forensic-ability of audit logs for nonrepudiation
T2  - Software Engineering (ICSE), 2013 35th International Conference on
IS  - 
SN  - 
VO  - 
SP  - 1419
EP  - 1422
AU  - King, J.
Y1  - 18-26 May 2013
PY  - 2013
KW  - auditing
KW  - digital forensics
KW  - educational computing
KW  - financial data processing
KW  - fraud
KW  - health care
KW  - software metrics
KW  - system monitoring
KW  - activity logging mechanism
KW  - application performance monitoring
KW  - audit log
KW  - compliance checking
KW  - data field
KW  - debugging
KW  - education
KW  - finance
KW  - forensic ability measurement
KW  - forensic analysis
KW  - fraud detection
KW  - grounded theory method
KW  - healthcare
KW  - log file attribute
KW  - software log files
KW  - software security events
KW  - software security metrics
KW  - software system
KW  - system resources
KW  - unique user identifier
KW  - user access tracking
KW  - user behavior profile extraction
KW  - user nonrepudiation
KW  - user privilege revocation
KW  - Forensics
KW  - Measurement
KW  - Medical services
KW  - Security
KW  - Software systems
KW  - Standards
KW  - forensics
KW  - grounded theory
KW  - logging
KW  - metric
KW  - nonrepudiation
KW  - security
KW  - software logs
VL  - 
JA  - Software Engineering (ICSE), 2013 35th International Conference on
DO  - 10.1109/ICSE.2013.6606732
AB  - Forensic analysis of software log files is used to extract user behavior profiles, detect fraud, and check compliance with policies and regulations. Software systems maintain several types of log files for different purposes. For example, a system may maintain logs for debugging, monitoring application performance, and/or tracking user access to system resources. The objective of my research is to develop and validate a minimum set of log file attributes and software security metrics for user nonrepudiation by measuring the degree to which a given audit log file captures the data necessary to allow for meaningful forensic analysis of user behavior within the software system. For a log to enable user nonrepudiation, the log file must record certain data fields, such as a unique user identifier. The log must also record relevant user activity, such as creating, viewing, updating, and deleting system resources, as well as software security events, such as the addition or revocation of user privileges. Using a grounded theory method, I propose a methodology for observing the current state of activity logging mechanisms in healthcare, education, and finance, then I quantify differences between activity logs and logs not specifically intended to capture user activity. I will then propose software security metrics for quantifying the forensic-ability of log files. I will evaluate my work with empirical analysis by comparing the performance of my metrics on several types of log files, including both activity logs and logs not directly intended to record user activity. My research will help software developers strengthen user activity logs for facilitating forensic analysis for user nonrepudiation.
ER  - 

TY  - CONF
JO  - Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, 2005. First International Workshop on
TI  - SecSyslog: an approach to secure logging based on covert channels
T2  - Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, 2005. First International Workshop on
IS  - 
SN  - 
VO  - 
SP  - 248
EP  - 263
AU  - Forte, D.V.
AU  - Maruti, C.
AU  - Vetturi, M.R.
AU  - Zambelli, M.
Y1  - 7-9 Nov. 2005
PY  - 2005
KW  - Linux
KW  - management information systems
KW  - protocols
KW  - security of data
KW  - telecommunication channels
KW  - LINUX
KW  - SecSyslog
KW  - corporate information systems
KW  - covert channels
KW  - digital forensic tool
KW  - level 3 ISO/OSI traffic
KW  - log traces
KW  - pcap-compatible output
KW  - secure logging
KW  - Communication channels
KW  - Computer hacking
KW  - Conferences
KW  - Digital forensics
KW  - ISO standards
KW  - Information security
KW  - Linux
KW  - Management information systems
KW  - Open systems
KW  - Protocols
KW  - Covert Channel
KW  - Forensic
KW  - Log Correlation
KW  - Log Integrity
KW  - Log analysis
KW  - Spyware.
VL  - 
JA  - Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, 2005. First International Workshop on
DO  - 10.1109/SADFE.2005.21
AB  - Today log traces are widely used to identify and prevent violations of corporate information systems. The most recent logging trend is to manage most level 3 ISO/OSI traffic via pcap-compatible output. But use of syslog is still very widespread, as are the security issues it entails, especially in its 'pure' version. This paper outlines the basic syslog problems as foreseen in the RFCs, examines the 'secure' alternatives to the protocol (and relative implementations) and proposes a transmission approach based on covert channels which, applied on the LINUX platform, might answer some of the intrinsic reliability problems which undermine its effectiveness as a digital forensic tool.
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
JO  - Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on
TI  - Trail of Bytes: New Techniques for Supporting Data Provenance and Limiting Privacy Breaches
T2  - Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on
IS  - 6
SN  - 1556-6013
VO  - 7
SP  - 1876
EP  - 1889
AU  - Krishnan, S.
AU  - Snow, K.Z.
AU  - Monrose, F.
Y1  - Dec. 2012
PY  - 2012
KW  - computer forensics
KW  - data privacy
KW  - computer systems
KW  - data access
KW  - data exfiltration attempts
KW  - data provenance
KW  - forensic analysis
KW  - forensic layer records
KW  - forensic platform
KW  - hypervisor
KW  - multiple disks
KW  - privacy breaches
KW  - tracking mechanism
KW  - version-based audit log
KW  - virtualized environment
KW  - Couplings
KW  - Forensics
KW  - Monitoring
KW  - Semantics
KW  - Virtual machine monitors
KW  - Virtual machining
KW  - Computer security
KW  - checkpointing
KW  - information security
KW  - intrusion detection
KW  - operating systems
KW  - system recovery
KW  - virtual machine monitors
VL  - 7
JA  - Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on
DO  - 10.1109/TIFS.2012.2210217
AB  - Forensic analysis of computer systems requires that one first identify suspicious objects or events, and then examine them in enough detail to form a hypothesis as to their cause and effect. Sadly, while our ability to gather vast amounts of data has improved significantly over the past two decades, it is all too often the case that we lack detailed information just when we need it the most. In this paper, we attempt to improve on the state of the art by providing a forensic platform that transparently monitors and records data access events within a virtualized environment using only the abstractions exposed by the hypervisor. Our approach monitors accesses to objects on disk and follows the causal chain of these accesses across processes, even after the objects are copied into memory. Our forensic layer records these transactions in a tamper evident version-based audit log that allows for faithful, and efficient, reconstruction of the recorded events and the changes they induced. To demonstrate the utility of our approach, we provide an extensive empirical evaluation, including a real-world case study demonstrating how our platform can be used to reconstruct valuable information about the what, when, and how, after a compromise has been detected. We also extend our earlier work by providing a tracking mechanism that can monitor data exfiltration attempts across multiple disks and also block attempts to copy data over the network.
ER  - 

TY  - CONF
JO  - Securecomm and Workshops, 2006
TI  - System Anomaly Detection: Mining Firewall Logs
T2  - Securecomm and Workshops, 2006
IS  - 
SN  - 
VO  - 
SP  - 1
EP  - 5
AU  - Winding, R.
AU  - Wright, T.
AU  - Chapple, M.
Y1  - Aug. 28 2006-Sept. 1 2006
PY  - 2006
KW  - authorisation
KW  - computer networks
KW  - data mining
KW  - learning (artificial intelligence)
KW  - statistical analysis
KW  - telecommunication traffic
KW  - data mining
KW  - firewall audit log mining
KW  - machine learning
KW  - network traffic anomalies
KW  - statistical analysis
KW  - system anomaly detection
KW  - Data mining
KW  - Data security
KW  - Forensics
KW  - Intrusion detection
KW  - Machine learning
KW  - Protection
KW  - Reconnaissance
KW  - Statistical analysis
KW  - Telecommunication traffic
KW  - Traffic control
KW  - Data mining
KW  - Firewall log analysis
KW  - Intrusion Detection
VL  - 
JA  - Securecomm and Workshops, 2006
DO  - 10.1109/SECCOMW.2006.359572
AB  - This paper describes an application of data mining and machine learning to discovering network traffic anomalies in firewall logs. There is a variety of issues and problems that can occur with systems that are protected by firewalls. These systems can be improperly configured, operate unexpected services, or fall victim to intrusion attempts. Firewall logs often generate hundreds of thousands of audit entries per day. It is often easy to use these records for forensics if one knows that something happened and when. However, it can be burdensome to attempt to manually review logs for anomalies. This paper uses data mining techniques to analyze network traffic, based on firewall audit logs, to determine if statistical analysis of the logs can be used to identify anomalies
ER  - 

TY  - JOUR
JO  - Network, IEEE
TI  - Flow-net methodology for accountability in wireless networks
T2  - Network, IEEE
IS  - 5
SN  - 0890-8044
VO  - 23
SP  - 30
EP  - 37
AU  - Yang Xiao
Y1  - September 2009
PY  - 2009
KW  - access protocols
KW  - computer network management
KW  - mobile computing
KW  - security of data
KW  - telecommunication network routing
KW  - computing infrastructure
KW  - flow net methodology
KW  - forensic purposes
KW  - intrusion detection purposes
KW  - media access control
KW  - network infrastructure
KW  - routing layers
KW  - traffic data collection
KW  - wireless network accountability
KW  - Communication system traffic control
KW  - Computer crime
KW  - Computer networks
KW  - Forensics
KW  - Information security
KW  - Intrusion detection
KW  - Media Access Protocol
KW  - Reconnaissance
KW  - Routing
KW  - Wireless networks
VL  - 23
JA  - Network, IEEE
DO  - 10.1109/MNET.2009.5274919
AB  - Accountability implies that any entity should be held responsible for its own specific action or behavior so that the entity is part of larger chains of accountability. One of the goals of accountability is that once an event has transpired, the events that took place are traceable so that the causes can be determined afterward. The poor accountability provided by today's computers and networks wastes a great deal of money and effort; examples include activities to identify whether a system is under reconnaissance or attack, and the difficulties of distinguishing legitimate emails from phishing attacks. This is due to the simple fact that today's computing and network infrastructure was not built with accountability in mind. In this article we propose a novel methodology called flow-net for accountability. We apply this methodology to media access control and routing layers in wireless networks. We then compare the performance of flow-net with audit log files. This article presents a novel approach for traffic data collection that can also be used for forensics and intrusion detection purposes.
ER  - 


