1
	
Extended ephemeral logging: log storage management for applications with long lived transactions
John S. Keen, William J. Dally
March 1997 		
Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) , Volume 22 Issue 1
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (566.34 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 3,   Downloads (12 Months): 16,   Downloads (Overall): 555,    Citation Count: 1

Keywords: OLTP, disk management, logging, long transactions
2
	
Novel log management for sender-based message logging
Jinho Ahn
June 2008 		
ICAI'08: Proceedings of the 9th WSEAS International Conference on International Conference on Automation and Information
Publisher: World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society (WSEAS)
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count:

Among message logging approaches, volatile logging by sender processes considerably alleviates the normal operation overhead of synchronous logging on stable storage. But, this approach forces each process to maintain log information of its sent messages ...

Keywords: distributed systems, fault-tolerance, garbage collection, rollback recovery, sender-based message logging
3
	
Movement-based checkpointing and logging for failure recovery of database applications in mobile environments
Sapna E. George, Ing-Ray Chen
June 2008 		
Distributed and Parallel Databases , Volume 23 Issue 3
Publisher: Kluwer Academic Publishers
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 1

In this paper, we present an efficient failure recovery scheme for mobile database applications based on movement-based checkpointing and logging. Current approaches take checkpoints periodically without regard to the mobility behavior of mobile users. ...

Keywords: Checkpoint, Failure recovery, Logging, Mobile data management, Mobile database application, Mobility handoff, Recoverability
4
	
FlashLogging: exploiting flash devices for synchronous logging performance
Shimin Chen
June 2009 		
SIGMOD '09: Proceedings of the 2009 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of data
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (739.84 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 5,   Downloads (12 Months): 48,   Downloads (Overall): 876,    Citation Count: 32

Synchronous transactional logging is the central mechanism for ensuring data persistency and recoverability in database systems. Unfortunately, magnetic disks are ill-suited for the small sequential write pattern of synchronous logging. Alternative solutions ...
Keywords: flash devices, flashlogging, near-zero-delay archival disk, online transaction processing, outlier detection and hiding, recovery processing, synchronous logging, unconventional array organization
5
	
Segment-based recovery: write-ahead logging revisited
Russell Sears, Eric Brewer
August 2009 		
Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment , Volume 2 Issue 1
Publisher: VLDB Endowment
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (1.01 MB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 4,   Downloads (12 Months): 16,   Downloads (Overall): 200,    Citation Count: 4

Although existing write-ahead logging algorithms scale to conventional database workloads, their communication and synchronization overheads limit their usefulness for modern applications and distributed systems. We revisit write-ahead logging with an ...
6
	
ARIES: a transaction recovery method supporting fine-granularity locking and partial rollbacks using write-ahead logging
C. Mohan, Don Haderle, Bruce Lindsay, Hamid Pirahesh, Peter Schwarz
March 1992 		
Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) , Volume 17 Issue 1
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (5.23 MB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 17,   Downloads (12 Months): 244,   Downloads (Overall): 5197,    Citation Count: 263

DB2TM, IMS, and TandemTM systems. ARIES is applicable not only to database management systems but also to persistent object-oriented languages, recoverable file systems and transaction-based operating systems. ...

Keywords: buffer management, latching, locking, space management, write-ahead logging
7
	
Understanding the message logging paradigm for masking process crashes
Lorenzo Alvisi
October 1996 		
Understanding the message logging paradigm for masking process crashes
Publisher: Cornell University
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 13

Keywords: causal logging, fault tolerance
8
	
Logging and Log Management: The Authoritative Guide to Understanding the Concepts Surrounding Logging and Log Management
Anton Chuvakin, Kevin Schmidt, Chris Phillips
December 2012 		
Logging and Log Management: The Authoritative Guide to Understanding the Concepts Surrounding Logging and Log Management
Publisher: Syngress Publishing
Full text available: 	The ACM Learning CenterThe ACM Learning Center ,  ePubePub (5.00 MB),  PDFPDF (12.41 MB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 17,   Downloads (12 Months): 102,   Downloads (Overall): 155,    Citation Count: 0

Effectively analyzing large volumes of diverse logs can pose many challenges. Logging and Log Management helps to simplify this complex process using practical guidance and real-world examples. Packed with information you need to know for system, ...
9
	
High-throughput low-latency fine-grained disk logging
Dilip Nijagal Simha, Tzi-cker Chiueh, Ganesh Karuppur Rajagopalan, Pallav Bose
June 2013 		
SIGMETRICS '13: Proceedings of the ACM SIGMETRICS/international conference on Measurement and modeling of computer systems
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (751.65 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 4,   Downloads (12 Months): 37,   Downloads (Overall): 227,    Citation Count: 0

Synchronously logging updates to persistent storage first and then asynchronously committing these updates to their rightful storage locations is a well-known and heavily used technique to improve the sustained throughput of write-intensive disk-based ...
Keywords: hard disk, high throughput, logging, low latency

Also published in:
June 2013 	SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review 	Volume 41 Issue 1
10
	
Where do developers log? an empirical study on logging practices in industry
Qiang Fu, Jieming Zhu, Wenlu Hu, Jian-Guang Lou, Rui Ding, Qingwei Lin, Dongmei Zhang, Tao Xie
May 2014 		
ICSE Companion 2014: Companion Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Software Engineering
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (739.11 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 18,   Downloads (12 Months): 96,   Downloads (Overall): 121,    Citation Count: 2

System logs are widely used in various tasks of software system management. It is crucial to avoid logging too little or too much. To achieve so, developers need to make informed decisions on where to log and what to log in their logging practices during ...
Keywords: Logging practice, automatic logging, developer survey
11
	
A Low Overhead Logging Scheme for Fast Recovery in Distributed Shared Memory Systems
Taesoon Park, Heon Y. Yeom
March 2000 		
The Journal of Supercomputing , Volume 15 Issue 3
Publisher: Kluwer Academic Publishers
Full text available: 	Publisher SitePublisher Site
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 4

This paper presents an efficient, writer-based logging scheme for recoverable distributed shared memory systems, in which logging of a data item is performed by its writer process, instead of every process that accesses the item logging it. Since the ...

Keywords: checkpointing, distributed shared memory system, fault tolerant system, message logging, rollback-recovery
12
	
Log your CRUD: design principles for software logging mechanisms
Jason King, Laurie Williams
April 2014 		
HotSoS '14: Proceedings of the 2014 Symposium and Bootcamp on the Science of Security
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (517.93 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 7,   Downloads (12 Months): 41,   Downloads (Overall): 41,    Citation Count: 1

According to a 2011 survey in healthcare, the most commonly reported breaches of protected health information involved employees snooping into medical records of friends and relatives. Logging mechanisms can provide a means for forensic analysis of user ...
Keywords: accountability, audit, black-box testing, case study, electronic health record software, healthcare, logging mechanism, nonrepudiation, science
13
	
Camel: collective-aware message logging
Esteban Meneses, Laxmikant V. Kalé
July 2015 		
The Journal of Supercomputing , Volume 71 Issue 7
Publisher: Kluwer Academic Publishers
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 0

The continuous progress in the performance of supercomputers has made possible the understanding of many fundamental problems in science. Simulation, the third scientific pillar, constantly demands more powerful machines to use algorithms that would ...
Keywords: Collective-communication operations, Fault tolerance, Message logging, Resilience
14
	
HOPE: A Hybrid Optimistic checkpointing and selective Pessimistic mEssage logging protocol for large scale distributed systems
Yi Luo, D. Manivannan
October 2012 		
Future Generation Computer Systems , Volume 28 Issue 8
Publisher: Elsevier Science Publishers B. V.
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count:

Future generation supercomputers will be message-passing distributed systems consisting of hundreds of thousands of processors. As the size of the system grows, failure rate increases. Hence for the success and deployability of such large scale systems, ...
Keywords: Checkpointing protocols, Consistent global checkpoint, Failure recovery in distributed systems, Fault tolerance, Large scale systems, Message logging protocols
15
	
A central and secured logging data solution for Xen virtual machine
Nguyen Anh Quynh, Yoshiyasu Takefuji
February 2006 		
PDCN'06: Proceedings of the 24th IASTED international conference on Parallel and distributed computing and networks
Publisher: ACTA Press
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 1

Logging data is a valuable and an important information to reveal the attacker's activities and to recover broken system. Unfortunately, once the attacker successfully penetrates a protected system, he never fails to either modify the logging data, or ...

Keywords: Linux, Xen virtual machine, central logging, secured logging
16
	
Cloud application logging for forensics
Raffael Marty
March 2011 		
SAC '11: Proceedings of the 2011 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing
Publisher: ACM Request Permissions Request Permissions   
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (521.38 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 19,   Downloads (12 Months): 168,   Downloads (Overall): 878,    Citation Count:

Logs are one of the most important pieces of analytical data in a cloud-based service infrastructure. At any point in time, service owners and operators need to understand the status of each infrastructure component for fault monitoring, to assess feature ...
Keywords: cloud, computer forensics, log forensics, logging, logging guidelines, software as a service
17
	
Structured and Interoperable Logging for the Cloud Computing Era: The Pitfalls and Benefits
Daniel Tovarnák, Andrea Vašeková, Svatopluk Novák, Tomáš Pitner
December 2013 		
UCC '13: Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE/ACM 6th International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing
Publisher: IEEE Computer Society
Full text available: 	PDFPDF (367.14 KB)
	
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): 2,   Downloads (12 Months): 10,   Downloads (Overall): 22,    Citation Count: 0

Computer logs represent a valuable source of monitoring information being typically the only mechanism for gaining visibility into the behavior of monitored resources. However, even in modern cloud data centers the majority of logs is produced in an ...
Keywords: monitoring, logging, cloud
18
	
A hybrid scheme using packet marking and logging for IP traceback
S. Malliga, A. Tamilarasi
April 2010 		
International Journal of Internet Protocol Technology , Volume 5 Issue 1/2
Publisher: Inderscience Publishers
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count:

IP traceback is a mechanism for tracing IP packets back to their sources. Tracing mechanisms include packet marking and logging. Log based traceback has the ability to backtrack a single packet by logging each packet at intermediate nodes in the networks. ...
Keywords: IP traceback, attack path, internet protocol, network attacks, network security, packet logging, packet marking, packet storage overhead, simulation, traceback accuracy, traceback overhead
19
	
A lightweight framework for secure life-logging in smart environments
Nikolaos E. Petroulakis, Elias Z. Tragos, Alexandros G. Fragkiadakis, George Spanoudakis
February 2013 		
Information Security Tech. Report , Volume 17 Issue 3
Publisher: Elsevier Advanced Technology Publications
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 1

As the world becomes an interconnected network where objects and humans interact with each other, new challenges and threats appear in the ecosystem. In this interconnected world, smart objects have an important role in giving users the chance for life-logging ...
Keywords: GNUradio, Internet of Things, Life-logging, Security, Smart environment, Smart objects
20
	
A Message Logging Protocol Based on User Level Failure Mitigation
Xunyun Liu, Xinhai Xu, Xiaoguang Ren, Yuhua Tang, Ziqing Dai
December 2013 		
ICA3PP 2013: Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Algorithms and Architectures for Parallel Processing - Volume 8285 , Volume 8285
Publisher: Springer-Verlag New York, Inc.
Bibliometrics:  Downloads (6 Weeks): n/a,   Downloads (12 Months): n/a,   Downloads (Overall): n/a,    Citation Count: 0

Fault-tolerance and its associated overheads are of great concern for current high performance computing systems and future exascale systems. In such systems, message logging is an important transparent rollback recovery technique considering its beneficial ...
Keywords: Checkpointing, Fault tolerance, Message logging, Rollback-recovery, User Level 